cyber crime today if it were a country
would have the third largest economy on
the planet that's how things have
expanded to that point and now does that
include pornography distribution it does
not without pornography dist without
[Music]
pornography hello
everyone um I had the opportunity to
speak to Brett Johnson and
Brett well Brett had a rough life and it
led him Dark Places and he spent a lot
of time setting up and running the
darker edges of the web and for many
years and facilitating the development
of online criminality and it's become a
real Scourge in our society and that all
changed about six years ago when he
decided that he was going to work on the
positive side of the universe for a
while and so we spent a good amount of
time time walking through his bio and
talking about how he got involved in
Shadow crew say from 2002 to
2004 was an early Consortium of online
criminals devoted to the sales of
illegal Goods drugs guns identities and
information and so forth and we walked
through all that and then the mechanics
of his decision to stop and to start
working with law enforcement agencies
and so forth and with corporations and
to inform the general public about the
dangers of online crime and about how to
protect yourself and well about about
the realities that faces as we
professionalize and organize criminality
at the same rate that we're doing with
everything else using this amazing
technology that's at our at our
fingertips so welcome aboard it's going
to be quite the
ride I've been
studying this array of personality
traits it's going to be a long question
question but it'll get us right into
what we want to talk about
today um known as the dark
tetrad now the dark tetrad is a group of
descriptors of Personality that are
negative and they
emerged as a object of Investigation for
two reasons okay one reason was that
there was this gentleman named Dr Robert
hair who worked at the University of
Columbia and he was the first
psychologist who studied
Psychopaths and he interviewed a lot of
psychopaths in prison hundreds of them
and developed a
questionnaire measurement a set of
measurements essentially that helped
determine what the personality
characteristics were of people who were
likely to become long-term
unrepentant
career criminals
and his students started to study that
psychopathy let's say it kind of had two
components it had a callous component so
people who are Psychopathic are more are
likely to be very high in the trait
they're
disagreeable um
self-centered they have very little
empathy for other people and can be
cruel if necessary and then they also
tend to have a parasitical lifestyle
which means that they'll they're
perfectly willing to live on the
earnings of other people or to manip
iate them for that purpose that kind of
makes up psychopathy they also tend to
be relatively
Fearless so yeah yeah yeah so and
then the um his students started to
study psychopathy in normal life right
because many Psychopaths end up in
prison but not all of them and so hair
students started to study more normal
psychopathy so to speak at the same time
psychologists had put together
a group of Personality descriptors that
covered the whole range of of possible
personality five factors extroversion
extroverted people are talkative and
full positive emotion neuroticism that's
a proclivity for negative emotion
agreeableness we talked about that a
little bit already conscientiousness and
creativity or openness but they
eliminated from those descriptors
anything that was evalu so good evil bad
good cruel kind most of those were taken
out because they wanted to make a
non-evaluative
representation of personality but then
that didn't work out so well because you
had to keep in the evaluative terms for
for the study of say serious
misbehavior and people started to look
at how those descriptors clumped and
came up with this dark tetrad model so
the darker sides of Personality are Mac
Alan so melan will use manipulation to
get what they want from people uh
psychopathy which we already discussed
narcissism which is the desire for
unearned social status and attention and
then sadism which was the latest one
that was added to that which was
something like positive Delight in the
suffering of others okay so that's the
background now I've got extremely
interested in this in recent years
because our culture is splitting apart
and there's a culture War that's
occurring that's much more and more
serious and it looks like part of that's
driven by
polarization and so I'm concerned that
polarization is driven fundamentally by
the
disinhibition of the psychopathic or
dark tetrad types online so in normal
interactions between people there are
lots of evolved mechanisms to stop
manipulation so for example if you and I
have repeated interactions and if we're
in a community where people know me and
know you if you you can probably pull
the wool over my eyes two or three times
but by the third time I'm going to catch
on maybe and then I'll know you and then
word will get around and that'll keep
you under control right and a lot of
people are C kept under control by
nothing else than social reputation and
social pressure that's all Stripped Away
online and so I'm concerned that the
virtualization of the world is enabling
the psych pass now there's I want to add
one more thing to that before asking you
more specifically about this I know
already that about 35% of internet
traffic is devoted to the propagation of
pornography and my sense is it isn't the
world's best guys that are involved in
the production and distribution of
pornography and then there's a huge area
where there's overt criminality right I
mean not most of the elderly people I
know are targeted on at least a weekly
basis by people who are trying to steal
everything they've got and then around
that there's an edge of sort of Quasi
criminal behavior that is engaged in by
the anonymous trolls and so forth the
people who are doing their what do they
call it they're having their fun for the
laws which is to laugh out loud to to
gain amusement at the expense of others
and we also know that the people who do
that are more likely to have these dark
tetrad personality traits so I'm
wondering you have extensive experience
with this you ran an organization or
were involved in it called Shadow crew
correct 2002 to 2004 and so and that was
one of the earlier attempts to organize
how would you describe it is it
organized criminal Behavior quasi
criminal Behavior legal Behavior
criminal criminal stra so so let's talk
about Shadow cre to begin with tell
everybody exactly what that was so
Shadow crew was the the first organized
cyber crime Community if you think about
cyber crime in order for it to succeed
three things have to take place you have
to gather data that's the stolen pii
that's credentials that's any type of
tool that's used to help commit the
crime which is the second necessity of
cyber crime and then the third necessity
is cashing that crime out and that means
either information access data or cash
all right so the problem is okay so the
three were again the three are gathering
data committing the crime yeah cashing
out okay the issue is is a single
attacker criminal activist nation state
what have you a single attacker cannot
do all three things so he has to network
with other criminals who are good in
those areas where he is not and that so
it's like a thief with a fence for
example that's it so you you're you're
relying on the internet to fill that Gap
where you don't have skill okay all
right so that's what shadow crew
primarily did was it allowed criminals
to network with each other Shadow crew
is also the first Forum or or platform
of its type that was a criminal market
place for goods and services so prior to
Silk Road or whatever's around today the
dark web as we know it uh Shadow crew
was that platform that began all of that
okay so that was the origin point right
okay okay and that was in how old were
you I was uh so this was 2002 32 through
35 Shadow crew makes front cover of
Forbes August 2004 headline who's
stealing your identity October 26 2004
Secret Service arrest 33 people six
countries 6 hours okay and how exactly
were you involved in that looking at
Financial cyber crime the the Genesis of
there are three sites there's
counterfeit Library Shadow crew and then
Carter Planet I ran both counterfeit
library and Shadow crew it starts with
counterfeit Library um and the way it
starts geez I mean
the I grew up with a background in fraud
my fraud yeah my mom was uh basically
the a major fraudster in Eastern
Kentucky so I grew up knowing how to do
a document forgery insurance fraud so
faking stolen cars faking accidents
burning homes for cash trafficking drugs
illegally strip mining coal that's my
basis of everything and your mother was
doing this my mom did that yeah my mom
did that my dad how did she get involved
in that that's a good question I I would
say from her family because as I grew up
it was really every single member on
that side of the family my grandfather
for example I mean what he would do is
he would buy stolen goods all the time
he sat down we were in Eastern Kentucky
he'd sit down on the uh the porch of his
of his house and people would bring up
stolen goods and they'd try to give him
a story on how it was acquired you know
Paul this is where it comes from he'
stop him son I'm not an FBI agent I
don't care how much do you want for it
so that's way things began um but
there's a lot of fraud in Eastern
Kentucky that's not an excuse there's
just a lot of fraud that takes place my
mom okay so there's a community there
that that that engages in fraudulent
practices regularly and your mother was
neck deep in this my how old were you
when you started to know that and
started to get involved in how old were
you do you think I I was 10 years old
when I started break along and what okay
how did you okay let let me go a little
bit or even earlier than that so how
would you describe yourself as a child
like earlier than 10 did you have
friends no Dr Peterson I didn't really
have friends I don't really have friends
now okay and so why didn't you have
friends when you were a kid um my dad
was in the military we moved around a
lot my uh my mom and dad they they
argued all the time uh my my entire
Circle were my parents and my sister and
your sister yeah and and is your sister
younger or older than you my sister is
year younger and do you have a
relationship with her I do I do I have a
very good relationship you have a good
did you have a good relationship with
her when you were a kid I did yeah we it
was honestly it was like me and her
against the world okay so you had one
person and you had one person what did
you have what was your relationship with
your mom
like my mom was a person who always told
us that uh she gave up gave up her life
for us that she was going to leave and
not come back that we'd find her dead in
a ditch someplace she'd go out and uh no
other word to to describe it other than
she'd go out and around with other
men on my father uh once she leaves him
she would come home and tell me that um
make up these stories about how the man
had abused her tried to rape her
everything else so I became the guy that
the kid who was uh scared that she
wasn't going to come back I was a kid
that uh if she wanted if she was going
someplace I would try to go with her to
make sure she was going to be okay mhm
um so she was out there putting herself
at risk constantly and but also tell me
if I've got this right I want to make
sure I've got this right but that she'd
also come home and tell you in
particular how dangerous the situation
was particular right right and so was
she was she trying to was was that like
was she playing the Martyr was she
trying to get attention did was she that
confused like what was she out for
adventure like what what do you think
was going on with her so I I view my mom
and I I don't have a a real relationship
with my mom now but I I view her as the
person who always tested people if I can
do this to you will you still love me at
the end of the day uh she she she
cheated prolifically on my father abused
him tried to kill him tried to poison
him um and he always kept taking her
back always and I think that was uh that
was my that's how I view my mom is is
what could she do to you and you would
still love her at the end of the day did
you know her mother at all I did what
was her mother like so her mom uh her
her mom's name was ala and um she was I
don't know if she was she wasn't like
that yeah she
um she was very
condescending she was um she would she
wouldn't say anything to your face it
was always behind your back that type of
of mentality now now grandfather my her
father Paul was very in your face and
Paul was and he was the one that was
involved with the with the fencing
essentially he was yes um so he was he
was always in your face he would uh he
would tell you what he thought of you
and um it was almost as if he had a he
had high blood sugar and he wouldn't
take proper insulin for that a lot of
the time so he would go off The Rocker a
lot oh yeah and um so that was the
additional an additional wild card but
but this is a man who uh not only
fencing he would uh if you if you
angered
him he would chase you around the house
with with a butcher knife with a hose um
he um he rented Apartments downstairs of
of his house he had converted the
downstairs to Apartments if he heard any
noise down there after 11:00 at night
the breakers were upstairs he'd throw
the breakers on the renders um if you we
lived in the house with him for a while
if it once he went to bed at night he
slept in a bedroom off from the living
room so he he would watch the the
Evening News at 11:00 p.m. it would end
at 11:30 at 11:30 he went to bed you
could watch television but it had to be
muted if he heard anything and he kept
his bedroom door open if he heard
anything he'd get up he'd throw the
breakers at that point in time uh me and
Denise when when my Mom leaves my dad
um we were allowed to take a bath once a
week and and Paul would measure the
water you were allowed two inches of
water and that was it and uh so that's
that's that that was uh that was was
your tional State like as a kid when you
were a little kid say even before
10 I don't remember a lot of that I
remember but I remember
uh I remember just just saying you know
not wanting my mom and dad to argue that
makes any sense yeah uh I remember uh
I've talked about it before but I've got
two earliest memories the one that I
knew was real we were in Fort Lewis my
my father was a captain in the military
and we were driving in the car me and to
D were in the back seat mom was in the
passenger seat dad was driving she was
screaming at him and finally she lunges
across the car grabs the steering wheel
and and screams at him are you ready to
die you son of a and tries to
steer him into traffic
um and he was always he always remained
calm he was always uh what can I do what
can I do how can I help this um the
other memory I had was and I didn't know
it was real until I was in my 40s and my
mom mentioned something about it but she
had a uh she had a woman tied up in the
front yard of my grandfather's house and
she was beating her and it turned out
that she had cheated on uh on my mom's
sister uh on her with her husband and um
those are the two earliest memories I've
got oh yeah well those are those are
plenty rough they they're a little rough
you know yeah yeah yeah but you know
with I didn't have friends it was always
uh it was always just uh um that Sur I
don't know if you call embarrassment or
what say that again I don't know if
you'd call it embarrassment not wanting
to bring people around Yeah well yeah
yeah so you you didn't you couldn't see
see how you could bring people over to
your house yeah huh and how you said you
moved around a lot cuz your dad was in
the military okay so you're you're
moving constantly that makes making
friends difficult right yeah yeah yeah
and what about your father what sort of
relation how often was he around and
what sort of relationship did you have
with him my dad um my dad passed away
about 6 weeks ago and
um growing up my dad was always the uh
the center of reason if that makes sense
he and and he you never heard him yell
or scream and when my mom was you know
doing these things he would he would uh
you know try to reason with her she
would bring men home in front of him and
he would he would cry and beg her not to
do it she do it anyway she brought this
one man home and informed him told him
that she was leaving him and uh you know
he's sitting there crying she leaves for
a few weeks comes back um I love my dad
I did what happens is is that uh my Mom
leaves my dad I was I was 10 my sister
Denise nine and we moved from Panama
City Florida to Hazard
Kentucky and um you ask where you know
that that entry into
crime so uh mom had been gone for a few
days I was a uh I was a guy that didn't
think she was going to come back I
always worried about her Denise was the
kid at nine just pissed off all the time
and um mom had been gone Denise walks in
one day with a pack of pork chops in her
hand cuz we didn't have any food in the
house couldn't go upstairs and eat
because they uh they would talk about us
all the time you know they uh You' to go
upstairs to try to get something to eat
and uh while you were sitting there
eating they'd say stuff who who would my
my grandmother and my
grandfather so uh you know you didn't
want to go upstairs a lot you want to
just stay downstairs the apartment what
would happen if they said things about
you well nothing I mean they'd feed you
don't make no mistake they'd feed you
but you know at the same time they were
feeding you you know your mom needs to
get a job your mom needs to do this uh
you know I can't believe this is going
on all that stuff so um I took that kind
of personal I think Denise did too so
Denise walks in one day and she's got a
pack of pork chops in her hand I'm like
where'd you get that she's stealing and
she shopped it and she was nine she was
nine uhhuh and uh we started stealing
food
the shopping plaza that had the& it's
got a Kmart in it starts shoplifting
other things hoodies so you can put uh
you know the way that started we wanted
a sandwich so I went and got a hoodie
off the rack took the tags off of it and
stuffed loaf of bread down the sleeve of
the hoodie threw it across theuh
shoulder M and from there it was Video
Games and jewelry and clothes and all
that mom comes home and sees the stuff
that we've stolen takes her a while to
notice what we've stolen but uh ask
where it came from
I tell her we found it she's like no you
didn't find that Denise we stole it my
mom looks at my sister show me how you
did that and not only does she join us
and start running us as little shop
lters but she calls her mom to join us
as well so we used to take these road
trips and
uh that's a lot of the problem I have
right
now with the holiday season approaching
why not include saving a baby's life on
your Christmas list through our
partnership with pre-born an
organization that's rescued over 270,000
babies you can do just that every day
pre-born network of clinics rescues 200
babies as they compete head-to-head with
the abortion Giants you see they offer
an
abortion-inducing
[Music]
A Mother's ultrasound pre-born also
supports both mothers and babies with
diapers car seats counseling and more
and now through a match your tax
deductible gift is doubled too for up to
2 years you are offering double
blessings now is the time to put your
yearend write-offs to work have your
donation matched by dialing pound 250
and saying the keyword baby that's pound
250 baby or donate securely at preborn
docomo that's preborn
[Music]
docomo when when you were that young
okay so so the way you you describ this
starting is said well there's certainly
an element of necessity in it right
right and you're obviously at 9 and 10
you're pretty damn little and your your
family has plenty of problems to put it
mildly and so Denise you said she starts
the shoplift and then you're you're
doing that next and relatively quickly
did you have some sense at that point
that it was wrong no sir you didn't and
why not do you think I I I don't think I
even cared I mean I knew that uh I mean
I knew walking into W in Kmart that you
know stealing stuff that people were
watching you but I yeah that you might
get caught yeah but I didn't care right
right and do do you have any idea why I
mean you can infer from what You' said
about your family why you didn't care
but have you thought about that any anym
in the intervening years I have I I
spent a lot of time trying to trying to
think through that and and the answer is
well we needed it or at least I
convinced myself that we needed it I
mean we could well there's some evidence
for that by the sounds of things I mean
you were pretty young and you're pretty
desperate and so you can imagine how
your sister might have been tempted into
doing that the first time and well then
this problem is solved but then you know
I'm kind of curious too at one point
especially once your mom joined in at
some point I would imagine it got to be
both a thrill and a game oh it is it is
it absolutely is so you know reasoning
needed it uh wanted the stuff you know
we couldn't afford an in television or
an Atari 2600 so I'll take it right
right you um and then it's it gets
quickly to the point where you want to
find out what you can get away with
what also what you described to some
degree what your mom was toying with all
the time to see what she could get away
with right but why do you think your
father do you have any sense of why your
father put up with
this yeah I do um part of it I think is
my dad was uh always scared of the
people that he loved leaving now that's
that's my perception whether that's true
or not that's because well it's possible
that I do that a lot myself these days
right but uh a lot of it is my dad was
not a man that um
my dad was not a man who had much of a
backbone a lot of the time right right
right okay so from a personality
perspective he would be your mother
would be disagreeable and high in
negative emotion to say the least and
your dad very agreeable agreeable people
have a hard time standing up for
themselves and they can easily be taken
advantage of but they would also be the
sort of person they are also the sort of
person who's very inclined to take care
of other people and who will always see
nothing but their good side that's my
dad but I I I want you to understand too
that my dad I I really do believe that
you know he wanted to commit the crime
too you know if mom had an idea to to
burn a home or or fake a sto a stolen
car in accident or something like that I
don't think that he had the uh the
backbone to do it himself I think that
he absolutely was all for it I mean he
he would not hesitate if mom wanted to
do something like that right so he was
he was involved in those things as well
he was he was the the only two so how do
you think how do you Jive that with the
fact that he also I mean he had a
military career he rose to the rank of
Captain he must have been able to follow
rules and to abide by principles why do
you think what did you think it was
about the criminal activity that was
attractive to
him I think it's getting away with
something that no one else is doing I
think it's uh you got the he had the
confines of the military that type of
structured Environ yeah being told what
to do all the time too and it's easy
enough to do that but at the same time
you want to Buck a little bit mhm okay
so this this issue of of getting away
with it so maybe you can tell me this
and this should be relevant to what we
talk about later when you were a kid
like they're so kids when they're in
their teenage years generally shoplift
and break laws to some degree in fact
the clinical evidence shows that imagine
there's three categories of kids there's
kids that break rules all the time they
don't have a good outcome a lot of them
up in prison then there's kids who never
break any rules
they don't have a good outcome either
they often end up dependent depressed
and anxious right and it's they're not
breaking they're not not breaking rules
because they're good they're not
breaking rules because they're
intimidated and Afraid okay and then
there's kids in the middle who toy with
rule breaking especially when they're
adolescents but then you know they
usually straighten out by the time
they're 16 or 17 and put that behind
them right so now when I was a kid in my
little town can remember in junior high
shoplifting was all the rage and if you
were good at it there was certainly a
certain amount of status associated with
that I had a couple of people I knew
they were older tough guys athl athletic
types A Farm big farm kids their Triumph
was stealing a canoe right sh
shoplifting a canoe which is like they
didn't even really need a canoe but it
was really a Brazen act right like
what's the most Preposterous thing we
can possibly get away with and that
issue of getting away with it you know
there's a kind of there's a there's I
think of it as a kind of arrogance and
pride that's associated with that like
because one and one of the things that
is true of the more Psychopathic types
of criminals is that they generally
justify their crime with a
rationalization that goes something like
if you're so stupid that I can take
advantage of you then you deserve
exactly what you have coming to you
right and it's also a demonstration of
the criminal superiority in that
situation and so I'm wondering
well I'm wondering what you think about
those sorts of motivations in
relationship to what your family was
doing after your mother put together
this little crime Network around you two
as
kids I don't think that um the
superiority I don't see that in my
childhood growing up okay I don't all
right I absolutely see that once I
Branch off my own yeah okay okay so yeah
that that's right right okay so that
comes later right right okay okay but
but I I wouldn't have thought either
that that was what motivated the initial
crimes cuz you already laid out really
how that happened you're relatively
desperate kids you're relatively
isolated you don't exactly have the best
moral uh models plus you're hungry and
eating is a pain and you know it it sort
of happens one step at a time and then
your mother facilitates your father
joins in that that's perfectly
understandable okay so now you said your
mother leaves your father about when
you're 10 is that permanent 10 11
somewhere through there but yes that's
permanent absolutely and then so what
are her relationships like after that so
after that she she was a nurse an LPN
and she was a nurse she was but the
thing about my mom was she would get a
job long enough to see my dad off to
work she'd quit the job and then go out
partying that was my mom so when she
leaves my dad we moved back to Kentucky
my my grandfather like I said he lived
in a house he had elevated the house and
built a Apartments underneath so we
ended up living in an apartment
underneath my mom yeah she started out
with a job as a nurse but that lasted a
few weeks at which point she there was
another lady down the street she hooked
up with her and they would go out
partying on uh and basically leave me
and Denise at home and did your mother
drink a lot she did not she was a valum
user though valum any other drugs valume
pot probably drink as well but I I
absolutely remember the valume okay okay
right so big Benzel used us her but she
would um it was all about partying it
was it was about a host of men that she
would come home and she was either
dating them and she would always pick
the most dangerous man she could
possibly find so it was oh so those are
the kind of guys that were around oh
yeah she liked those types of guys so
there was there was one who uh who had
murdered his girlfriendwife whatever
that was and had supposedly had a
blackout and didn't remember it so I got
to hear all about that finally she meets
the man who would become my stepfather
and Jimmy was his name and he was he was
not a bad guy he was not he was he was
an alcoholic but uh he worked hard every
single day um I don't know what to tell
the way they met to hear my mom tell it
what had happened was um she went to
walk into a nightclub he was standing
outside he looks at her and says hey why
don't we go make some babies and she
looks at him and says well come on and
that that was the way they met and they
had a relationship from that point
um you asked about my child funny that
they'd want to it's funny in some ways
meeting like that that they'd actually
want to have a relationship because it's
a hell of a right it's so contradictory
is that you establish a sexual
relationship really at the drop of a hat
right and yet even then there's a pull
towards something like an actual
relationship and and and Jimmy from from
what you're telling me it sounds like
Jimmy wasn't as bad as some of the guys
that your mom dragged home I would agree
yeah and how old were you did she marry
him or did they just live together she
married him while I was in juvenile
detention and did did she divorce your
father she did okay she okay and how old
were you when she married Jimmy 15 15
and that's you were in a juvenile
detention center I was okay so how let's
go through the progression of your
criminal career you start out with
shoplifting I did and then that expands
under the tutelage really in the
participation of your mother and your
father and your grandmother and your
sister anyone else involved in that I
mean not not really like Paul he did a
lot of fencing Paul was just a little
crazy violently crazy at times all right
so but and Paul was my grandfather
Paul's your grandfather um but it was it
was my mom my sister I I hesitate to say
her criminal experience because other
than shoplifting she doesn't do anything
else I see I see so she she didn't she
didn't continue to she did not and was
there a point in her life when she quit
shoplifting as well how old was she when
she this would have been 12 or 13 oh oh
okay so she quit early yeah so and what
happened was is we we took this road
trip to Bristol Tennessee there was a
mall called the Henry Fort Henry Mall
and uh they would go to JC penes and
steal clothes and jewelry I would always
go to the bookstore and steal books so I
was in the bookstore Balton bookstore
stealing books why were you stealing
books CU I like to read a
lot so okay yeah so I was stealing books
and uh it's like a virtuous cry right so
I stealing books and I was supposed to
meet them back at at the vehicle as they
were coming out JC Penny so I go back to
the vehicle nobody's there I wait about
30 minutes walk into JC Penny as there's
two guards outside and I literally hear
my name come over their their
walkie-talkies for Brett Johnson I'm
like that's me so go up and they had
gotten caught at that point so uh that
ended their shoplifting experience and
that ended Denise's little fora into
criminal activity too and she so so why
do you think she quit
Denise never I don't think she ever
wanted to do it I think Denise actually
had that moral compass at that point in
time I see so you think she was
primarily driven to it by necessity and
then your mother was participating and
so it got extended and then when the
hammer came down that was enough and so
so okay well we'll get back to get back
to Denise later okay so so now you on
the other hand you're shoplifting and
now and so how are you reacting to doing
it now you saw your mom and your sister
get caught why didn't that stop you well
because I was getting the stuff that I
wanted okay you know I was uh we
couldn't afford the video games or the
the the clothes or later on I was doing
the D and dash routine at restaurants
and stuff like that we couldn't afford
that so it became this thing of okay if
I can't afford it I'll take it right
right right but and even at this point
12 13 do you have other guys around you
at that point other friends or not then
either you alone so so in our
neighborhood there were uh there were
four boys there was me my cousin two
kids lived down the street and we all
basically you know we all were in the in
the mess yeah as that goes to speak but
um you know we grew up in that
environment and all of us
were getting in some sort of trouble
right but you also are you also don't it
doesn't seem that also that you're
inclined to characterize them as friends
that's true I'm not okay okay and you
said that's even true now he yeah I
don't um when I speak I do a lot of
speaking and when I speak I I I'm I tell
people I never had friends while I was a
criminal I had Associates because you
don't have friends I lied to everybody
yeah right right and I yes that's an
unstable basis for friendship I don't
think you can have friends when you're
Li it's tough yeah um these days I
uh I don't have friends I've got my wife
yeah um next door neighbors a few people
like that yeah but I'm not uh I'm not
guy that
uh has what I think is would be
considered real friendships yeah well
it's a hard thing to establish later in
life if you don't have a pattern of
doing that from probably from about the
age of three to tell you the truth like
there are
boys I'm not sure would were you an
aggressive kid no okay okay so so one of
the typical patterns for long-term
criminality is there's a small minority
of boys about 5% who are quite
aggressive by temperament at age two
they kick hit steal and bite and so if
you put them with other two-year-olds
you know they're aggressive right now
two-year-olds tend to be egocentric
anyways but these two-year-olds are
egocentric and aggressive most of those
boys are socialized by the age of four
and so then and what that means is they
start to develop friendships that are
somewhat reciprocal at about the age of
three and then that expands right and
there are often boys who are disciplined
appropriately Often by father at home
right and then they get to be socialized
well enough so they can have friends and
then they have friends and instead of
being aggressive and tilting in the
exploitative direction like they did
when they were two they learned to be
you know competitive within the confines
of sports and so forth they sublimate it
into some other yeah yeah but if they
don't manage that by the time they're
for they never manage it it's very hard
to be socialized into a friendship
network if you don't accomplish it
between the ages of two and four okay
right yeah it seem seems to lay down the
pattern for it or something like that
establish the expectations we don't
exactly understand it that well okay so
between 10 and 15 and are you still in
school are you going to school any
degree of regularity how are you doing
at school I was um I was extremely
bright in school but bored a lot yeah so
would miss a lot of school would
typically not do a lot of the work um
thought that I knew more than the
teachers a lot of them and uh did not
hesitate sometimes to tell them that so
that that was my school experience how
far did you get in School uh halfway
through bachelor's oh okay so you went
off to college or university I did and
what did you take at College English lit
and
theater okay okay okay okay all right so
now as your as your
shoplifting expands
what other activities are you getting in
involved in on the shadow side of the
law like are you drinking are you
smoking are you are you were you ever a
drug user when you were young no I
didn't I didn't start drinking until I
was
34 never used really yeah really okay so
that's strange so how in the world did
you manage
to skirt the more than skirt the
frontiers of like shoplifting and other
sorts of criminal Behavior when you're a
teenager especially with a mother who's
partying all the time and and that sort
of influence around you why in the world
weren't you attracted to alcohol and and
drug use I didn't want to be like my
mom okay but but that's very specific
because you were you were engaging in
criminal activity with her but you there
was something about the drug world that
really you weren't happy about okay so
so what was that what is it exactly that
you decided you weren't going to
participate I don't want to lose control
under some sort of substance I want want
to be in control of myself I see I see
and so you saw her lose control yeah in
ways that were what what do you say were
they frightening were they otherwise
off-putting what was it about the
influence of drugs on her that you
particularly objected to and didn't want
to replicate so I associate my mom's
drug use with
uh with that verbal mental uh physical
abuse that she did to everyone everyone
I I associate her her want this with
other men with that drug use I uh the
way that she treated my father the way
she tried to kill my father sometimes I
Associated all of that with that I never
had kids I didn't start drinking until I
was 34 um have never used
drugs all because of that do I think I
missed out sometimes yeah yeah I think I
missed out yeah but it sounds like you
missed out on an awful lot of trouble
yeah M but yeah 34 when my wife leaves
um my first wife when she leaves me I I
started drinking at that point I
basically was like screw it why not the
holidays are rapidly approaching but we
can find peace and calm in the craziness
of the season with hallow the number one
Christian Prayer app in the world
immerse yourself in Christmas and Advent
prayers meditations and peaceful
Christmas music hallow also offers an
extensive library of Bible reading plans
accompanied by insightful Reflections
and audio guided meditations whether
you're a seasoned Bible reader or just
starting your journey Hall provides a
platform for you to engage with
scripture like never before a great
place to start is with father Mike
schmitz's Bible in a year in which he
offers brief daily readings and
Reflections available on the Hallow app
the Hallow app also helps you connect
with a community of like-minded
individuals sharing experiences insights
and encouragement along the path to
spiritual growth this Christmas join
Hallow's Christmas prayer challenge
Advent with CS Lewis for the 25 days
leading up to Christmas you can focus on
the real reason for the season with
prayer medit ation and Christmas music
on hallow download the app for free at
hall.com Jordan for 3 months free that's
hall.com
[Music]
Jordan right right right right right
okay so let's let's go through from 10
to 15 you send it up you ended up in
juvenile detention okay so how did that
progress now you you finished school and
well enough so that you could go to
university correct okay so we'll deal
with that on a different track but now
you're so so how is it how is it that
your shoplifting expands and into what
other criminal Endeavors and how is it
that you get brought to the attention of
the law so I don't uh I don't associate
the uh that juvenile stuff with the
shoplifting stuff okay I I for me I put
it on two different tracks and the way
that I associate that when I was uh gez
I don't know seven eight years old I uh
I would catch my mom and dad I would
catch him gone and I would urinate in
the house on the carpet down the drains
and sink something like that all right
um I don't know if it's correct or not I
didn't talk about that till I was about
46 I got on a stage so so me with
therapy I do a lot of my therapy in
front of a crowd and uh because that's
only place I feel like I can be safe
doing that as weird as that is but uh I
started talking about it I had a woman
come up to me afterwards that said that
she used to work with abused children
and she was like that's a control
mechanism that's the only control you
had left was that that's okay fair
enough but what happens is my Mom leaves
my
dad I was under the impression that I
was going to be able to go and live with
my dad so one day I I call my dad up and
he tells me that not only am I not going
to live with him but he's gotten married
and I didn't know he who he married or
anything else like and how long after
your mother left your father did you
find out this two years two years two or
three years had you seen your father in
that intervening time I had not I didn't
have a conversation with my dad for
about 20 years I see so your mom left
your dad at 10 and he just disappeared
in your life outside out of mine right
and but you were hoping there was a part
of you that was hoping that he would he
wanted you to go live with him and
that's what you wanted yeah I would call
him every now and then you know I would
call him like every two weeks I'd have
to leave the the house where we'd live
and we that same Kmart I was shoplifting
from they had a pay phone outside I'd go
out there and call them
man and talk to
him and
uh thought that excuse me thought that I
was going to live with him and uh so you
were talking to him by the on on the
phone yeah okay okay so you had that
much contact and did he know that you
assumed that you were going to live with
him he did he did but he didn't he
didn't tell you that that wasn't did was
do you think maybe he was hoping that
that would happen or what did he was he
unwilling to dash your hopes or what
what do you think was why do you think
that he wasn't letting you know how the
what the lay of the land was so um I
think there's a few reasons for that I
think that um it's lack of backbone
saying what need to be I think that um
you know after I talked to him after you
know after we kind of made amends and
everything I I found out that he he
didn't have anything he was living in an
apartment he had to walk back and forth
from work uh he had a dog he couldn't
afford to keep he gave his damn dog away
so he didn't have anything and don't
think he wanted to uh to tell his son
that that he couldn't yeah yeah right
yeah well you know things often have
multiple causes yeah right right right
so what happens is is he tells me
that and the the neighborhood that I
lived in there was a hospital out the
end of the
street I walk into the hospital get an
elevator woman walks in and uh I assault
her at that point in I beat the hell out
of
her and uh I get arrested for that I was
15 get arrested for that that's why I
was in je attention I see so that's why
that's separate from the other yes right
and so now okay so look I don't want to
poke and prod in places that are going
to be too distressing so okay okay so so
my sense of that is that you're what
would you say betrayed outraged and hurt
beyond belief at that point right you're
living with your mother that's not going
very well for OB for all the reasons you
laid out you're nursing this fantasy
that you're going to go live with your
father and things are going to be all
right and that vanishes and so now
you're now now but the question is why
do you think that translated into the
action you took in the hospital she
looked a lot like my
mom I see I see why did you go into the
hospital do you think we used to as kids
we didn't have any money we used to go
up there and hop the elevators right up
and down oh I see so that was just
something you were in there doing for
fun yeah okay so you didn't go into the
hospital with any like aggressive intent
in
mind and so you saw this woman what
happened
exactly I guess all the
um I
just through the
uh she walks in I was so pissed off that
uh
just started beating and uh somewhere
through the line you know they had that
push button where you throw the uh the
emergency stop and so this was in the
elevator in the elevator so she were you
in the elevator and she got on or was I
was in the elevator she gets on I see I
see and there was just the two of you
just the two of us uhhuh okay okay okay
so um emergency stop gets hit
um she starts
screaming and I'm just want her to stop
screaming screaming so I don't know how
to stop that other than just hitting so
um hit her until she stopped
screaming get up and uh I remember
trying to uh to climb the damn wall of
the elevator to try to get out of the
emergency exit I was you know so was the
elevator stopped at this point because
of the emergency was hit um so I I don't
know how long I was in there but uh I
ended up starting the elevator back
doors open there's a crowd outside and
um this guy grabbed him one of the uh
nurses attendants grabs grabs him by the
arm and I ended up knocking the hell out
of him H how big were you I was a big
kid you were a big kid 15 I was a big
kid give you an idea of size when I was
uh in grade school I started varsity
football um so I was like third fourth
grade I played Varsity so I was a big
kid oh right right right and um so took
off on took off on the Run made it back
to the house uh hid the clothes that had
blood on them
about uh about an hour and a half later
the Kentucky State Police they pull up
and uh I was sitting on the porch and
they they knew immediately I mean they
they knew where to go because I was
known in the in the neighborhood and uh
take me in and I was
uh I think I was 6 months they didn't
have a uh I said Juvenile Detention they
didn't have Juvenile Detention I was 6
months in a Cell just away from the
adults that's what they had of the
County uh the judge at the end we went
to trial I told the judge yeah I
assaulted her the judge found me guilty
and sentenced me to a psychological
evaluation went to the evaluation in
Louisville Kentucky I was up at the
hospital there for about 6 weeks um cut
me loose I don't know what the prognosis
was but they wanted me to have U
counseling after that of course there
was never any counseling there wasn't
there wasn't well why not do you know my
mom didn't think I needed it so I never
and it wasn't mandatory it was
not okay okay well that's seems like a
mistake it does seem like a mistake yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah do you know what
happened to the woman yeah she was in
the hospital for uh I think four or five
days um she she testified at trial as
well and uh we didn't have a jury was
just judge deciding everything and um
from there it was it was a very small
town and
um she used to uh she knew where I lived
and everything she used to drive by the
house and she so she was no longer
afraid of you at that point do you think
or I don't doctor I don't know what I
don't know what that was but uh you know
if I was out someplace she would uh I
guess it was just to show her to herself
that she wasn't scared oh yeah yeah cool
but she would uh she would walk up to me
and just stand in front of me and look
at me not say anything and uh those
types of episodes were kind of common
like that H and what happened what sort
of emotional reaction did you have when
she did that I would
run you would run yeah try to get away
and run now at that point were you
remorseful for what had happened in the
hospital oh yeah you were oh
yeah yeah did you ever apologize to her
I apologized at court I was
uh I never said anything to her after
that but in court in court and I I
that's one of the I have I wish I would
have been able to apologize right what
would have you
said I'm
sorry all right so you were in the
juvenile in the cell for six about six
months or how long did they keep you in
there six months okay and what did that
what was the consequence of that for you
of of of of the assault the the trial
and then the incarceration what how did
that change you well I became a pariah
in the in small County so I became a par
right because people knew who you were
yeah everyone knew who I was I was uh
right so when I come back out I'm um the
first High School I try to go to to they
uh the kids prevent me from coming they
actually line up outside at at the at
the high school oh yeah when I come in
here the second high school the
principal my mom takes me in same county
same county second high school the
principal tells my mom that my sister is
allowed but I'm not and uh I looked at
my mom I was like hey let me go to this
place called Dill Colmes it was way out
in the county and uh she wanted to fight
it and I was like no I don't want to
fight I just want
to let me let me just go there so uh she
takes me there and they allow me there
and uh I was a junior at that point and
they were uh it was like a home to me
they they why' they allow you do you
think I don't know I don't know
principal was Open Arms well and your
disc somewhat distant too right so so
you're it's there's a bit of a arms
length relationship there so that was a
good place it was I excelled there
absolutely
excelled so became U head of the
academic team head of the drama
department head MK trial um one of the
top uh academic students in the state I
ended up winning uh uh for theater
competition I won best actor and actress
in ' 89 for uh for the State uh did
extremely well and that's that's but
what happens is is uh when I get there
that's and I I say this pretty
consistently uh when I'm talking to
people that's the first real person that
I met that was a good person this woman
named Carol Colmes was an English
teacher I walk in and the way she tells
it she says I heard this voice and I
wanted you on stage and she looks at me
she's like hey have you ever been on
stage and I was like well I'd like to be
on you know academic team quick recall
kind stuff yeah and uh the deal was if I
did theater for her that she would let
me be in academics and I ended up
heading both of those but so what do you
think it was about you that she
was positively predisposed
to
guess I think she saw somebody that was
uh that was broken and didn't need to be
and you think she saw that
yeah yeah she
uh we get out of school
there was a convenience store down at
the bottom of the hill and I would have
to uh I'd have to wait there four or
five hours before my mom would come to
get me so U Carol started to see that
how far away was your mom at that time
how far away did you live uh 10 15 miles
okay so there was no reason for a five
four or five hour delay no there wasn't
and uh uh Carol started to see that
after a few weeks so she started to uh
pick me up take me to the house so she
became this like surrogate mother to me
you know and
uh most of my time for that two years
was spent with with her you know so I
did really
well and then not okay okay well that's
okay so that's that's curious hey
because what happens is that you get a
second chance but this time you get
aligned with someone who's older who is
a surate mother who actually opens
genuine doors for you who encourages you
she notices things about you that you
can do that are genuine right she opens
some doors for you and you actually
start to have some success and obviously
it seems to me that you were pretty
happy about that oh yeah okay so then
now you're on now you could be on a good
track right hypothetically because you
also said you were winning Awards and
and you also indicated that you were
accepted where did you go to college or
university University of Kentucky okay
okay so you're going to a decent
University
and you're
taking that you'd like to take you said
English and drama and you you would
steal books to read them you obviously
had some academic inclination and some
dramatic Talent so you know in some ways
it looks like well you could have a life
right okay so so you graduate from high
school and or so what what goes wrong
well what goes wrong is
um I had U I got my first girlfriend so
I was uh I was uh 19 when I met Christie
and uh fell over head over Hills with a
girlfriend you know finally had a
girlfriend high school high school well
I was I was out of high school and
freshman I see I see so you're at the
University of Kentucky right well I'm at
a I'm at a community college first about
to transfer out I how long were you at
the community college um year and a half
two years and how was that for you it
was okay it was it was not as great as
the uh as the high school experience but
it was okay okay okay so when you get a
girlfriend well get a girlfriend and um
now coming out of high school I so
coming out of high school why no
girlfriend before that you're like
you're doing all right in school you're
you're doing all right in the drama side
hypothetically you might have been able
to be you know be attractive to a girl
why why not why not before that do you
think I think it was the history of the
the elevator I think it was it was my
view of not deserving a girlfriend yeah
because of that and uh just scared to
ask
yeah okay yeah well fair enough fair
enough um so what happens is is coming
out of high school I had I had some
scholarships for for drama debate things
like that turned those down and uh
because had been talking to this girl so
wanted to stick around and I see so
you'd been talking to her at the end of
high school right High schol okay so you
so you don't take full advantage of the
scholarships and so forth that are
offered because you you now have the
interest in this girl okay okay now the
the one I did take interest in I started
Community College we were doing a show
um called House Divided it was written
by the head of um San Jose State's
theater department and he flies in the
the professor at Community College he
knew him so he flies in to see the
production and sees me on stage and he's
like hey full ride scholarship do you
want to take that I was like yeah I want
to take that and and that was for the
University of Kentucky that was for no
that was for San Jose State that was for
San say St they were going to give you a
full scholarship full r on everything
okay so I was like absolutely we'll take
that he's like I'll be back in a few
weeks we'll talk about it I was like
okay so um he leaves comes back a few
weeks later flies in uh I'm outside
shooting basketball with some of the
boys in the neighborhood and he pulls up
and uh I I walk up to his car and I'm
like I'll walk you introduce you he's
like I got it so he walks in the house
he's in there about 15 minutes walks out
quiet as the Sheep leaves scholarship
dies never hear from him again and uh
few weeks later I find out what had
happened was is uh he gets in there my
mom pulls a knife on him threatens to
kill him you're not going to steal my
son from me and he took that to heart
and oh oh wow and when that happened I
kind of took that to heart too okay so
what does that mean that you took that
to heart I
uh is it okay to cuss hey man have
better I was like you know it you
know I'm not going to I'm not leaving
this place I'll just stay here and uh I
see so that's sort of a reaction
that's is that is that the same reaction
just out of curiosity that happened to
you in the
elevator yeah you know yeah yeah yeah
okay
so yeah CU that's an emergence of
something like you you can understand it
right because well obviously what
happened with your father that was very
frustrating and definitely something
that could engender both resentment and
the desire for Revenge right okay so now
you've been working pretty hard at
getting your act together you have this
full scholarship that's on the table and
your mother basically stabs you in the
heart yeah
right right and so the the the response
you had which was it that's an
understandable
response have you been able to determine
in the intervening years what you should
have done instead yeah okay what should
have you done should should have called
this director up and said hey you know
Edward I'm coming let's do this don't
worry about that I apologize about my
mom I want to take this opportunity
that's what I should have done but I
didn't let me ask you this question are
you at peace with the Mindless screen
time you spend on your phone every day
are you gaining that higher quality of
life you know you desire if this sounds
familiar I have good news starting on
January 1st tens of thousands of men all
over the world will start 202 4 with a
90-day journey together in search of a
more purposeful life it's called Exodus
90 and it was built to help men enjoy
the freedom of becoming who they were
truly made to be Exodus 90 guides you in
removing the attachments that are
holding you back from a better life and
it actually works independent research
shows that Exodus 90 men report
considerable shifts after the 90 days a
dramatic decrease in time spent on their
phone stronger satisfaction rates in
their marriages a more meaningful
relationship with God and true
brotherhoods of men on the same path for
the past 8 years Exodus 90 has helped
more than 100,000 men build their own
road map for living with virtue in a
culture that offers far too many paths
to self-destruction so is it time for
your Exodus we start January 1st find
resources to prepare for Exodus 90 at
Exodus 90.com Jordan that's Exodus 9.com
Jordan to start your
journey why not do you think I mean that
that that response you had that's an
that's a response of anger right right
and it it's also it's a response that
basically says something like instead of
moving forward I'm going to burn things
to the ground might be me it might be
well God only knows what you're going to
burn to the ground but it's so
interesting a because you had things set
up right and I mean your mother
definitely did her part to trip you up
no doubt about that
but why do you why do you think that you
succumb to the temp ation of saying to
hell with it instead of taking this
other pathway any idea yeah it's a it's
a scary Prospect right I've I'm
comfortable where I am Comm crie and
everything else but that fear of the
unknown of actually doing a a good thing
of taking a a a step into some something
I've never done before yeah I've acted
yeah absolutely but going off into the
into some lost land out in California
someplace where you don't know if you're
going to succeed yeah yeah well and you
would have had go alone too you know and
that's that is a daunting prop but you
know on the other hand you know you
could have imagined thinking oh my God I
get to leave thank God it's what I've
been praying for forever I've been you
know maybe part of that too is like your
situation in many ways was pretty
desperate and you did clamber your way
out of it but you could also Imagine
conceivably that you were concerned that
you would take the Stellar opportunity
and it would turn out to be you know to
dissolve into dust and burn to the
ground and so that's people I know
people whose hopes have been dashed
repeatedly they start to get afraid of
Hope itself you know because they've put
themselves on the line they put
themselves on the line and being
throttled as a consequence of it at some
point it's easy to say I'll never do
that again it's not helpful though
because the alternative is well let's
find out what the alternative is okay so
you said to hell with it all right so
now you're not going off on scholarship
all right so what happened happens well
what happens then is I I dive kind of
deep into some criminal activity I was
uh and right away no okay were you
engaging in criminal activity when you
were going to the high school where you
were doing well no I wasn't I wasn't
okay so you'd put that on the back
burner at all were you or now those two
years I was busy with theater with with
Dramatics I would I would go to school
at 8:00 in the morning every single day
I'd go to school every day and I
wouldn't come home sometimes until 800
or 9 at night I have do okay okay okay
so the other thing we can draw from that
is the conclusion that you had something
better to do I did right right well you
know one of the things that has to
happen for people to stay stop drinking
so they have to find something better to
do you can't just stop drinking right or
any form of misbehavior you actually
have to have something better to do and
you had something better to do at the
school and then you had an offer the
scholarship offer that would have given
you something better to do but you
didn't take it now your mother put that
it's funny thing you know cuz you might
ask yourself like did she put a did she
put a knife in your heart or a stumbling
block in your path that you then
stumbled over right because obviously
like she Bears responsibility for
pulling a knife on the person who was
offering you this great gift but you
know the mystery there too is why didn't
you Christ you could have gone to San
Jose like to the guy's office and said
look you know I get it you're terrified
I'll do anything to come here right I'll
I'll put my mother behind me she's not a
real danger you know give me a shot for
4 months and see how it goes you know I
mean that would have been a
sophisticated response and you would
have had to do it alone and so it's
unlikely but you could also see that it
wouldn't have been impossible right and
so you had this opportunity instead all
right you got to be angry at this point
I would think you know oh yeah okay okay
yeah right right right and did you ever
have it out with your mother about this
I did but that type of having it out is
uh was was
basically yelling I don't I don't yell
but you know this this hey you angry
yeah discussion and then you know two
weeks later everything is kind of
okay yeah yeah yeah yeah well I mean
you'd seen repeated patterns of
misbehavior characterizing her life and
I can't imagine that you thought that
that you would think that you know it
would be possible really to sort
something like that out so there would
actually be change okay so now now you
lack the future you could have had it
but you also have an excuse because
something's been taken away from you
right so now you have a justification
for okay so now what starts to happen uh
first thing I do is steal someone's
identity I used to go to school
with wallet no I actually uh I walked
into the DMV found out what it took to
get a replacement driver's license
noticed the way that they kept records
at the
DMV then proceeded to get enough
documents to convince them that I was
him to get them elaborate okay how' you
come up with that idea that's a good
question um that's an elaborate that's
an elaborate plan essentially yeah so
what what happens is is uh I was
actually getting a my replacement
driver's license walked in there and
noticed that uh the way they kept
records on the DMV it was all paper at
that point in time and I was like well
hell they're not even putting pictures
to the driver's license so um I was
wanting of all things I was wanting a
Sega Genesis at that point in time and
didn't have one and at the same time I
was like you know I could probably set
up a bank account and start running
checks if I was had somebody else's ID
as well all right so okay okay so you
have a goal in mind you want this video
game now you're plotting ways that how
to do it how to do it so I I ended up so
why not like get a job because obviously
you've got enough discipline at this
point to work at least in principle cuz
you've been working at school is it cuz
you're like is it cuz you're angry like
what why not I had a i later on I ended
up getting a job I had I was a manager
at a Domino's Pizza for a while okay
well but I broke the law from inside the
pizza place too right okay so what so
again what the he was it fundamentally
your your anger what's motivating you at
this point cuz like the ability to do
it okay so is that when that pride in
being able to do it yeah yeah yeah so I
was I was you know I it's not that I
needed money yeah I didn't I was I was
when I was working at dominoes I I did
all right as a all right um eastery no
one has a lot of money anyway so
everyone's in the same boat as it is
right but it's so even if you have like
a reasonable stream of income that's
small you're doing okay comparatively
yeah you're doing okay yeah because most
people there aren't working right right
most are just making ends me right uh me
it was um I think it it boils down to um
so when my mom meets my stepdad Jimmy we
and I I I actually said this to my
sister at the time we ended up uh he
went broke and we ended up living in a
trailer 40ft business trailer for uh for
about 18 months and uh I told my sister
I was like I'll never live like this
again and uh so at that point you know
when I started working at dominoes I
it's like it's like it was always like a
puzzle to me how can I get around these
systems so at that point it was like you
know you're getting all these orders in
I'm like well I wonder if I could pocket
some money and nobody know about it well
it turns out you can so it was like how
Can you steal I can steal another $400
or $500 a week maybe more than that and
keeps going to that point doesn't anyone
find out about it okay so there's a
materialist motivation to some degree
you don't want to live in that kind of
poverty and that humiliation there's
things and ego yeah yeah okay ego in
what way I'm better at it than anybody
else I can do it and get away with it
I'm better yeah yeah okay so that's when
that starts to come up as right right
well the thing is too you already knew
that you were smart right and you had
been rewarded Ed for that at school and
you were successful so you had reason to
think that you could probably get away
with it right right right and that pops
up a lot in my history yeah well yes I I
imagine I imagine okay so that's where
it has its real
Genesis right so Ste this kid's identity
um turns out so what happens is I I end
up I leave that day call the DMV hey
what do I need to do to get a
replacement driver's license I don't
have any of these identity documents and
they tell me well you can get some
school records and you'll need to go to
the Social Security Administration and
then get an Affidavit of identity
printed out by them things like that so
I started at the school Bo the bo Board
of Education I walked in told him I was
this guy and got his school records from
there that allowed me and they didn't
ask for ID they did not I see as long as
I had as long as I had a social that was
fine so I ended up back then you didn't
have callor ID that was widely
distributed so I ended up calling acting
like the Social Security Administration
telling hey you know we're the Social
Security Administration we've got some
sort of anomaly with your social
security number could you verify your
number with us he fell for that came to
the social that allowed me to walk into
the to the I see I see right so now
you're starting to be able to build an
identity outside the system right that's
a big deal right that's a big threshold
to cross and that opens up the
possibility of doing that like at a
large scale right away exactly right and
you also have the motivation you said
ego you also had the
motivation what to well to not live in
parver to get some of the things that
you wanted but but and also the what
would you say the dawning conviction
that you were smart enough to get away
with it right okay okay all right so
that's how that starts to develop all
right so so get the driver's license uh
set up a couple bank accounts get the
checks in from the bank accounts um use
that to do cold checks at every single
Walmart that I could find in that radius
in easteregg okay Define that cold
checks what are you doing exactly you go
in and you buy Goods write a bad check
for it and walk out with the product can
why would they accept the check check
because back then they used to you so
they wouldn't be able to verify how much
money was in the account against so they
take your word for it right because most
of the time that would work and they
could make a sale as long as the check
didn't didn't exceed a certain amount
they would not verify funds on the
account so I think it was like 250 300
bucks something like that oh yeah okay
all right so so enough to get going
right so did that and uh come to find
out what had happened was is when I go
in to get the driver's license at that
point they had changed security so at
that point they take your snapshot and
they attach it to the file that has the
the DL information on it oh yeah
physically so um that last and that that
did not stop me I just hell with it
maybe I get away with it and start
running the checks they bring the kid in
of course they get a warrant for the kid
right go to serve the warrant the kid's
like that's not me that's Brett Johnson
so they get the picture yeah I see I see
so they get a warrant on me come down my
mom finds out about it um she gets the
money up to pay off all the checks and I
ended up on probation at that point so
no real consequence for that action and
that's a lot of my history too is is I
was committing a lot of crime and no
real consequence and each time would
ratchet it up another notch all right so
what do you think should have happened
to you at that point that would have
been best for you you know because
really what you're telling me I I
believe is that in retrospect the play
in the system the mercy that the system
showed you even was not in your best
interest okay so what do you think
should have happened that time now the
first time with the assault you got
nailed right okay and then well actually
your life in some way straightened out
after that for a reasonable amount of
time okay this time you get caught but
but you get a slap on the wrist right
and so in you don't think oh my God I
was fortunate I should straighten the
hell out what do you think instead I got
away with you got away there's no
consequence and right so even though I
got caught did I didn't want to get
caught I didn't think I'd get caught but
even though I did get caught didn't make
any difference right right and you
didn't care no I didn't I I didn't I
mean I didn't that that's that was my
history didn't did not care about
victims did not care who I was hurting
Justified it and and believed the
justifications that I threw out you I'm
doing it for my wife for my stripper
girlfriend for my sister I believed that
crap that I threw out there too right so
but you you needed those extra reasons
to justify what you're doing the extra
reasons being that you were that there
were other people that you were serving
you don't think so I think I used those
I did believe those justifications but I
don't think I needed them in order to go
out and do that now I now what's kind of
interesting with me and I I think about
that a lot when I was from the
girlfriend on if I didn't have a
girlfriend in my life I was not doing
fraud but once I had a girlfriend in
that relationship oh yeah
as much as I possibly could at that
point so there was absolutely that that
aspect and was that an ego status thing
as well do you think it
was I with my dad and that that's why I
hearkened back to him when I told you
that he was the guy that was scared of
the people that he loved leaving him I
am I am the guy that does not want to uh
be aart
from that romantic relationship if if I
have a woman like okay so why was the
fraud necessary then because I could
stay at the house and do it and set my
own
hours okay so that meant so that what
did that mean that you could be with the
person more often keep an eye on them or
I don't have to work an 8 to a 9 to5 or
an 8 to4 job or anything else like that
I can sit at the house kind of make my
own hours and I'm I'm there around you
all the time and is that what now did
you why did you want to be around the
person that you were in love with all
the time was it to keep an eye on them
or was it because you why was it exactly
they might leave for you didn't want
them to leave so it was actually a
consequence of the relationship of of
the and the value of the
relationship yeah okay so you could make
a okay so this is interesting though so
you could make a bond with the person
that you were in love with you think
that was a genuine Bond did you
treat so so you'll have to tell
me when I was in prison and I I take
this to
heart I was told that if you have an
addiction that you cannot love anything
else but that addiction now I view my
criminal activity especially cyber crime
as an addiction now I like to say I like
to say that I love my first wife I like
to say that I love that uh uh this this
woman named Elizabeth was a stripper I
like to say that but the truth of the
matter was is I put crime first first
right but it's complicated because you
said you didn't engage in the fraudulent
activity except when you had a
girlfriend right right so well you
know unfortunately people are
complicated right and you can have more
than more motivation at the same time I
mean I guess you'd ask yourself in a
push if push came to shove situation so
I guess you know one of the ways of
sorting that out would be if you were in
a situation where it was
lose your
girlfriend and it or stop committing
crime
if you pick the option that left you
continuing criminal activity then
obviously you love that more almost by
definition and so were you ever in
situations like that oh yeah so my first
wife I mean Susan it took her two to
three years to find out that I was this
criminal all right I I lied to her every
single day and once she finds out that's
when I start the the the routine of I'm
going to stop I will stop just a little
while longer I have stopped and then
finally it got to the point that you
like spending the money that's coming in
don't you and she leaves at that point
you tell her that yeah I I used to tell
her that right right so you're making
her complicit in some ways right yeah
right and so okay at that point what's
justifying the continued criminal
activities is still the the ego The
Pride the adventure like what the hell
exactly is the thrill of it so at that
point um that that that comes into this
whole thing that you that first question
that you asked
about the internet all right yeah so at
that point it's it's really ego- driven
because I'm at the top of the food
chain so I I am the guy that everyone
comes to for references advice how to do
things piing up deals everything else
I'm basically this kind of God status
right right so in the in in this domain
of online criminal activity you're way
the hell up on the hierarchy chain right
okay see that that would have its
attraction and that's the same
attraction that that mob mob life has
for a mob boss right or or in drug
distribution gangs there is there's
definitely competition to rise up the
hierarchy that's typical male motivation
regardless of what the hierarchy is you
know there's a great study of a drug
distribution gang in Chicago in the
projects and most of the low-level drug
Distributors were more likely to be
employed gainfully than the non-drug
Distributing peers right were ambitious
guys and they intended to be ambitious
within the confines of the criminal
organization but that ambition still
drove them upward that drive for status
right right so okay so all right so
let's go back to to when you you go you
got put on parole for making this false
ID and you got CAU now you know how to
do it okay so now what happens and
you're what about 20 at this point yeah
I was I would have been probably 2021 at
this point okay okay so so you you
didn't get stopped you got away with it
for all intents and purposes you could
think at that point do something like
well if the damn system is so stupid
that they're not even going to call me
on my misbehavior you know to hell with
it again and and and but you also said
you know and then we'll go back to this
you also said that you didn't have any
remorse with regards to the victims and
so why do you think that
was like what was the justification for
that well the justification for me was
telling myself that hey I need it more
than they do hey it's his it's just his
identity
he'll recover from that you know without
caring trouble had a realm of
rationalization for well because I'm
curious because you know the fact that
you you know you spoke positively of
your sister and you spoke positively to
some degree of your father you certainly
spoke positively of this woman who
helped you out in high school you're
clearly able to establish some empathic
relationship with other people and so
that would beg the question you know why
didn't that occur why didn't you extend
that to the people that were being
victimized by your actions but you just
said you had a web of rationalizations
that I suspect you probably built that
up one piece at a time until it was very
elaborate same sort of thing you did
with your wife when you told her that
you know she wanted to spend the money
and so she was really involved too and
you know and that's always an open
question if someone's misbehaving
terribly in your household and you have
some advantage to that and you fail to
notice you always have to ask yourself
is like well was it was your lack of
noticing convenient right and so I'm I
mean IED that against them I mean yeah I
get that I you know if someone loves you
and Susan absolutely love loved the hell
out of me uh and I knew that you know
I'm I knew I was never going to quit
breaking the law but would tell her that
in order to smooth things over pretend
that I wasn't in order to smooth things
over and then when it pops up again you
know I'm so sorry I'll never do it again
blah blah blah did you feel that you
were genuinely sorry at that point or
was that just an act I mean it it's
complic
yeah no doubt so absolutely complicated
also by the fact that apparently you're
quite a good actor yeah so it was uh
part of it yeah part of it yeah I'm
sorry I did that am I sorry I I stole
money no I'm sorry that I hurt you right
right so you could draw on that sorrow
right compartmentalize it yeah right
right right that would make it more
believable too for you as well right
right right okay so so now you know how
to generate false ID so how does the
whole internet for know I'm going to
start to what happens is is I date this
girl that was uh I was with christe for
I think five years your first wife no no
first girl first girlfriend okay was her
with her for five years and she was a
preacher's daughter oh yeah yeah she
figures out she finally figures out that
I am not going to convert to
Christianity I I have belief problems so
uh she breaks up with me and uh I ended
up at that point I'm married to my wife
Susan within six months meet her it's
this Whirlwind thing of sex and romance
and we get married um move from Hazard
Kentucky to Lexington and uh going to
college and I'm a control free no doubt
about it told her I was like don't worry
about working I got it don't worry about
cooking and cleaning I got it and didn't
have it so uh I was working a 60 hour
week job had an 18- hour load all the
cooking cleaning no I didn't have that
at all what ended was the job and uh
soon as the job ends I start going back
into fraud again okay so when you went
to Lexington to begin with you stopped
that for a bit I did right okay because
I was working at at I was uh uh testing
printer boards at Lex Mark was what was
a job I had and didn't have time to
break the law all right so the job ends
and I start going into there's a good
moral in that everyone watching like you
know the devil finds what is it work for
Idle Hands there's definitely truth in
that right you want to be so busy doing
useful things that you don't have time
for things that you know and I take that
to heart these days yeah yeah yeah I bet
my bet all right all right so so the
work how come you stop working when
you're in lection I couldn't do it I was
uh the 60 hours was from like a Friday
through a Monday so I would be in there
15 hours a day and then try to go to
class with a with a 8 10 hour class load
the rest of the week and could so you
were take you took on too much yeah yeah
and was that in an attempt to impress
this woman probably probably try to make
it was more trying to make ends meet
because we didn't live on campus she
wanted to live off C okay so there was
Financial necessity there too so it was
it was was she in University she was she
was a music Major I see I see
performance was what she was and and and
you were you happy to be with her
initially uhhuh yeah but uh you know six
6 months you think you've got all the
things in the world in common after
you're with that person for two years
you find out you've not got anything in
common and then you're with them for
another seven years on top of that right
right right okay so you so your job you
quit I quit you quit and then okay so
what happens then quit the job um start
in
telemarketing and I'm good on a phone oh
yeah so start with telemarketing and PR
good in what way in manipulating people
to buy the product right so that's on
that's online real live training for
manipulation right right and you already
have some skills as an actor yeah so I'm
very good at that start at a uh uh
started a cemetery the cemetery
transitions over because we a better
position at um the Shriner's Hospital
they had a thirdparty company coming in
doing telemarketing for fundraising
selling circus tickets things like that
did that once the that gig ended that
same company transitioned over to
raising money for uh the kuana club and
they were selling food
baskets so what I did was is I was like
you know I can run a kanana club myself
so go down get a business license for my
own charity and start telemarketing
telling them that I'm a kanan's
club starting a business can be tough
especially knowing how to run your
online storefront thanks to Shopify it's
easier than ever Shopify is the global
Commerce platform that helps you sell at
every stage of your business from the
launch your online shop stage all the
way to the did we just hit a million
orders stage Shopify is there to help
you grow our marketing team uses Shopify
every day to sell our merchandise and we
love how easy it is to add more items
ship products and track conversions
Shopify helps you turn browsers into
buyers with the internet's best
converting checkout up to 36% better
compared to other leading Commerce
platforms no matter how big you want to
grow Shopify gives you everything you
need to take control and take your
business to the next level sign up for a
$1 per month trial period at shopify.com
sjbp go to shopify.com jbp now to grow
your business no matter what stage
you're at that's shopify.com
[Music]
jbp so when you learn to sell food
baskets for kuas you said in all of that
you learn to be manipulative let's say
or better at it right so what tricks did
you learn tell marketing that then
enabled you to produce the next scam
like what how much of a theory do you
have of that I mean you're a smart guy
you must have been thinking through the
processes that you use to entice people
to buy well you were you were selling
something that was genuine to begin with
right but you said you were good at you
said I believe that you were good at
manipulating people and you know the
line in sales especially something like
tell marketing between selling and
manipulating is you know it's a tricky
moral line right right and so and you
can be disproportionately rewarded in a
telemarketing operation if you happen to
be good at it so what were you teaching
yourself to do while you were
telemarketing well see you got to
backtrack a little bit on that so you
you got to realize that when I was a kid
and this is this whole thing called
social engineering so as a child I had
to know what the adults were doing
around me what they were thinking how to
try to you know to survive that that
Paul Campbell routine sometimes right so
I had to know what was going on that
translated really well to phone work so
you're you're paying attention you're
doing this active listening thing you so
so the first few seconds of the call
depending on the tone depending on the
aggression of the person how how they're
answering the phone everything else like
that you know you know whether they're
in a hurry you know whether they're
dominant or passive you know exactly how
to handle that call do you need to come
in and be aggressive do you need to come
in and be more passive and submissive
with that call and did you mirror the
people like if they were aggressive what
would you do in response if they were
aggressive you so it's all Predator prey
right you're depending on the
relationship that you're with someone
you're either predator or prey but it's
not always that you're predator or prey
you have to know when to make that
switch if you're making that switch so
it's an aggressive person you'd come in
with more of a submissive type attitude
until finally you're ready to take over
that call all right I see I see so you
back off and look for your opportunity
right always you're always gauging the
person you're always paying attention to
what they're saying how they're saying
it uh the pauses that are taking place
everything else until you you finally
you read that person enough and you need
to do it quickly you've read that person
enough to know exactly what you need to
do to trigger that cell to do that
manipulation to get them to do what you
want them to do and that's exactly and
was that a game yeah that's a game yeah
but that that that's the exact same
thing that translates extremely well
when we're talking about online crime
right right okay so that that all these
this yeah well it's interesting too
because telemarketing is sort of it's
the gateway to Virtual right cuz you're
just on a phone you're not actually
there in person so you're half virtual
on the phone right right so you're
learning all sorts of Tricks right right
and you get good at it how long do you
do that I did that for
uh married in 94 so probably through 97
998 oh yeah so four years yeah right how
many hours a week uh 30 40 hours a week
okay okay so you definitely develop
expertise in this how long till you
Branch off with your own false charity
so that would have been uh 2 and a half
years in okay so you okay and how long
did you run the false kianus
organization 8 to n months okay and what
happens is I was doing some
telemarketing and uh I was a oneman
operation so they would uh I did not
have a drop address for them to send
checks for cash I would actually go
around and pick it up oh yeah it seems
like a bad idea yeah it's a horrible
idea yeah so went to pick up checks
walked up this guy's door he he walks
outside on his porch he's like you are
not with the kowas club I was like what
are you talking about he's like I'm a
member of the kuanana club and law
enforcement's on their way oh so I get
in the car take off get caught uh serve
3 months in a county
jail all right and how much how much
what was the dollar amount of fraud that
you'd managed at that point that was
only charged with maybe $6
$7,000 just the amount of checks that I
had on hand I see and what do you
suppose it was in total at that point
any idea for that it wasn't much 30 20
30 not much okay and were you still
working as an actual telemarketer at the
same time you were not so this was like
your full-time job now and were you
doing that like8 hours a day or how much
time four hours a day four hours a day
so 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. so that's when
you find most people at home you people
are during the day what were you doing
during the day hanging out with my wife
Susan oh okay okay okay so that's you so
you got to hang out with Susan at that
then take four hours off to do
telemarketing okay and then one day a
week you'd go around and pick up check
some money okay and so so you got picked
up and and you got what was the
punishment of at that point so I was
looking at a year and a half yeah got a
lawyer did 3 months is what I did okay
now that that absolutely ends the
telemarketing fraud bit at that point in
time yeah okay so Susan and I we lose
our so what was it like to be in jail
for three months now I presume you were
in the general prison population at this
point minimum security prison County
jail county jail yeah all that was
County jail so in Kentucky if you don't
serve any more if you're not sentenced
any more than a year you do your time in
a County Jail system oh okay and what
was it like being in the jail for 3
months interesting so you it's it's it's
very loud yeah uh you've got uh you've
got some violence that goes on so um it
it at that County Jail it was not
horrible you didn't have like a riot
popping off you didn't have inmates
trying to kill each other and were you
were you good at defending yourself
physically I mean are you the sort of
person who gets bullied in jail or not
to people leave you alone did they leave
you alone yeah they did okay why I was
big to begin okay Al I was also very
gregarious um smart enough that if
someone needed a letter written or some
advice or something I could tell them oh
yeah okay so you could be useful when it
was useful and useful matters in prison
uh it matters a lot uhuh so well useful
matters pretty much wherever you are as
it turns out yeah okay okay so so all
right and you were there for three
months three months okay and what's your
wife thinking about this she's crying
every day right and did she had any idea
you were engaged in this sort of
activity
she she did know at that point she did
okay she I don't think she I don't think
well I don't know what she thought but
um she certainly knew I was breaking the
law when I was going around picking up
checks and doing telemarketing product
okay she certainly knew that um I
don't and why did she why did she put up
with that because she loved me and I
manipulated in yeah okay okay okay
that's okay same okay right right right
again it's that it's that me putting
criminal activity in front of the
relationship
you know she'll she'll because I'm I'm
the man of the house and I'm paying all
the bills she will get accustomed to it
right oh yes okay also that so she
becomes reliant on it as well right
right right do you suppose there's a
part of you that knew that if she became
reliant on that she would be less likely
to get in your way I think so yeah
that's a rough one
yeah yeah again like I said man I I'm
yeah I'm a control freak I am you know I
I I want to be the person that provides
for the family I want to be I want to
have that position I believe it's my job
to do that the problem back then is that
job was fraud right problem yeah yeah
okay okay so you're there for three
months you get out and what do you
conclude from being there for three
months you have to do it better the next
time I conclude I should not do
telemarketing fraud that's the that's
literally the conclusion yeah yeah so I
start u a little problem generalizing
there I would say yeah so I move over
into to online stuff okay is what I do I
and I I and that's when what year this
would have been
9697 okay so that's e early in the
online world right so you're an early
adopter of online technology right right
so what I do is and how did you learn
how did you learn to use computers I was
always Adept in that you were my dad
when when we were in Panama City um that
one of the Christmases this is so my dad
we moved to Panama City the only job the
man could get was at a 7-Eleven as a
night midnight Clerk and uh that
Christmas he gave me into the $70 a
piece that's all he could afford for
that and uh he he surprised me there was
this Texas Instruments they had a a
personal computer division they were
going out out of business so this man
goes and waits two hours in line to get
this TI
994a oh yeah to give what year is that
jeez this would have been uh 79 oh okay
so that was very early right cuz
computers really didn't become
widespread till about 83 84 even that
was really early right right so you you
had one very early yeah and it was you
know it's glorified video game was yeah
yeah but it's but you're in the game at
that you're in it you're you know you're
program and you're talking in all the
lines of code and everything so you can
play that game for 10 minutes and all
that so from there it's just kind of
kind of took sure sure but but you got
to understand that it's it's not really
a lot of crime online is not really
being Adept to computers it's being
adept fraud right but but the computer
wasn't an impediment right it was not it
was not okay so what how what do you
start doing online so start looking
around just you you said porn yeah I was
part of that 35% at that point I'd spent
a lot of time on porn sitze and
everything else and finally I find eBay
and I'm like I like eBay a lot and I was
like there there's got to be some way to
make money on eBay and uh what I came
across was Bill Riley he used to host
Inside Edition and they were doing a
show on Beanie Babies one night
profiling Peanut the The Blue Elephant
was what they were profiling and u i was
watching and I was like a naive guy I
was like you know I'm in Kentucky
there's got to be one of these little
animals someplace in a store in a bin
someplace cuz he was selling for 1,500
on eBay so go around the next day I skip
my classes go around to all the little
stores T takes me about 3 hours to
figure out no no he's not in a store
he's on eBay for
$1,500 right they'd already been well
scavenged exactly exactly so I was
always the guy that did Arch I go home
and I start uh I start researching okay
what do you have to send if if you don't
send an item in the mail can they arrest
you for that H is what I was like turns
out they can so I was like so how do you
get around that well it turns out that
they that they had these little gray
beanie baby elephant sprayed dollars
bought one of those stopped by a Kroger
on the way home picked up a pack of blue
Rit Dye oh yeah went home died the guy I
was like you know I can tell the lady if
nothing else that damag and shipping
something like that cuz they were
exactly the same except for the color so
put a picture of a real one on eBay she
wins the B how how how much like the
real one did they look not at all look
like looked like it had the mange when
you got it so it's made out of polyester
so it's hard to D yeah you can't D it be
splotchy and everything it's wet
everything else and I was like you know
what'll happen is she'll get it in the
mail she'll see that it's been wet and
everything she'll think it was damaged
and shiing I can claim that if nothing
else all right so dyed the thing send it
out to her get a call as soon as she
gets it but before I send it out to her
I was like Hey I want to make sure I get
my money send her a message this is a
social engineering thing again because I
don't want to be on the defens of this
conversation I want her on the defensive
I want her to have to establish trust
with me not me with her so I sent her a
message hey congratulations you win the
bid we've never done any business before
don't know if I can trust you what I
need you to do go down to the US Postal
Service pick up a couple money orders
totaling $1,500 send those to me I'll
send you your anal h she believe that
sends me the money orders the reason I
wanted that is you can't cancel them so
I sends me money orders I cash them out
send her this thing in the mail get a
phone call did not order this my exact
response you ordered a blue elephant I
sent you a blueish elephant and I kept
putting her off I kept saying yeah I'll
send you the money back I'll send you
the money back what you find out and
that's one of the things I teach in
classes these days is that's the first
lesson of cyber crime you delay that
victim you just keep putting them off a
lot of them they get they get
exasperated throw their hands in the air
walk away right right right you don't
hear from them and they don't call law
enforcement so it's a first online of
crime I committed right there and why
don't they call law enforcement
embarrassment I mean so think about well
and it's trouble it's also trouble to
call the ca not nothing and I know the
reasons today so it's it's embarrassment
of victims it's who do you complain to
do you complain to the Kentucky State
Police do you complain to the Sheriff's
Office do you complain to the state
where you bought legal ambiguity so
there's a lot of jurisdictional issues
at the same time a lot of the time the
law enforcement when you walk into a
police station they don't want to hear
it you know were you were you stupid
enough to fall for a scam like that is a
lot of the response from law enforcement
right that's a foolish response because
the people who are scamming are likely
doing other things right yeah yeah plus
if you let those small things go as
we've already discussed they don't stay
small for long because criminals are
also ambitious what's that broken
windows policy yes absolutely absolutely
definitely that yes definitely
yeah okay okay so so you're putting her
off and you've got your 1,500 bucks okay
so then what happens well what happens
is is I I continue with little eBay
scams under my own name but I start
getting better because I'm I start to
realize that hey these people are
calling me and complaining right about
this stuff right so I start seems like
an unnecessary amount of trouble very
unnecessary but remember I've got that
history and identity theft at the same
time right so what I start doing is is I
I'm I transition over into pirated
software pirated software in order to
play like pirated video games back then
you had to have a mod chip that was
soldered onto the circuit board of the
gaming system so I started to do that
that opened up the door okay do what
exactly what so you get you'd get this
little circuit chip yeah and you'd uh
crack open the PlayStation one or the
Sega Saturn thecast and You' you'd find
out where on the circuit board you had
to solder that chip and you'd solder the
chip on there and that would allow you
to play the pressed or the the the CDs
that you had that had the games on oh
yes so that wouldn't do that so that led
into programming satellite DSS cards so
the RCA 18in Satellite Systems you can
pull the access card out of it program
it turn on the
channels started doing that how did you
learn to do these things read it online
on forums this is not complicated stuff
at all all right so the the soldering I
learned working at lexark so that tool
translated very well to them the uh the
pirated software led into that what got
me on there was I was I was doing porn
online and some of the sites had banner
ads or people discussing pirate to
software so that led into getting the
context for the Pirus software which
then led into mod chips the mod chip
forums started to talk about RCA
Satellite Systems so this is the
beginnings of of a criminal Network
emerging online essentially and then
what happens is a Canadian judge he
actually rules in court he was like
since RCA doesn't sell the systems up
here my CI can pirate the signals oh
yeah thank you Canada yeah so what
happens is you go down to Best Buy you
buy the system for $100 take it out
throw the system away take the access
card program it ship it to Canada $500 a
pop oh yeah oh that's a good de that's a
good start is that that's legal too e
that's that's legal it's well it's gray
yeah okay right right so it's legal in
Canada right but it's not legal to do it
in the United States and ship it to
Canada I see I see okay so started doing
that also relatively low probability of
getting caught because your Canadian
people are not going to be unhappy so
started to do that and at the same time
is when PayPal comes into fruition and
back then how much money are you making
with the CH 4,000 a week oh yeah and
that's in 2000 this was
96 okay so you're doing pretty well
pretty well at that point yeah all right
um had so many orders it became a
problem trying to find enough access
cards for the orders that's sad that's
that's that's that's an issue so what I
was like I was like hell they're in
Canada who are they going to complain to
if I don't send them
anything so oh yeah started doing that
stole even more money got worried about
how much was coming in and wanted a a
fake driver's license now I knew how to
do identity theft I didn't know how to
make fake driver's licenses so figured
I'd get a fake ID use that to open up
bank account funnel the money through
the account cash out of the
ATM didn't know where to get one that
University didn't know where to get one
so I got on online started looking
around found a guy sent him $200 in my
picture and he rips me off oh yeah yeah
yeah yeah and I got I got really angry
at that you should have thought that was
funny really I you know today I do I do
today it's all Karma but yeah back then
I was just mad yeah yeah and uh well
that's a blow to Your Ego it is it is
definitely but I still needed the ID
yeah so continue to search for this
thing and F the only the only Avenue you
had back then to commit crime online was
IRC Internet relay chat rolling chat
board had no idea who you were talking
to if you could trust them if they had
something for sale if they actually had
it or if they were just going to rip you
off so he couldn't use that Network the
only real website at that point in time
was called counterfeit library and the
only thing it dealt in was counterfeit
degrees and certificates but they had a
forum section attached to it so because
that was the real only platform out
there I start going to that Forum every
single day and complaining about getting
ripped
off that's all I do I'm bitching about
that and about getting ripped off for
the ID yeah cuz I'm looking for this ID
so I'm complaining about getting ripped
off and I still need this ID I see I see
so what happens is because that's really
the only trustworthy platform that's out
there at the point you start having
these other people coming into this
forum as well I ended up partnering with
two other people a guy from Moosejaw s
sketch one a guy from La the Moosejaw
guy Moosejaw this International crime
exactly right moose so Moosejaw he
actually made fake IDs so he gets me one
day on icq and he's like hey I can make
you a fake driver's license I was like
well make it he's like no I'm going to
charge you $200 I'm like yeah like
you are well by this point in time I'm
friends with the people who actually own
the website we're we're shooting emails
at each other and everything else and
I'm like I tell you what I'm gonna send
you $200 so that way when you rip me off
I can have you banned from here and I
don't have to worry about you anymore
and he's like bet I was like okay so
send him a picture send him $200 two
weeks later I get a fake driver's
license is a good one well I thought it
was looking back it wasn't but at that
point in time it was good enough to go
to a bank right it was good enough it
was good enough cash checks with and um
and it was in a real name as well so
what happens is is he went by the screen
name of blub oh God that Bloody well
figures you know one of the things I've
really noticed about the most vicious
online trolls is the probability that
they have an anonymous name with
something satanic Nazi or communist in
it is almost 100% yeah it's stunning
always it's supposed to be funny it's
not that funny actually but it's
unbelievably it's unbelievably prevalent
he he did that and he was a potg that's
what I actually done on the side he grew
he GRE grew marijuana but he sends me
the idea the the idea ID he wants to
sell fake driver's licenses online yeah
the other guy that I partnered with was
his name he he went by the screen name
Mr X and he did a very competent social
security guard so together you had an ID
package right right I didn't have that
skill at that point in time so what he
said was is he was like hey what you do
is you become the reviewer any product
or service because you don't sell
anything you're not making anything any
product or service you'll be that
outside unbiased oh oh interesting
interesting you review everything then
that allows you to get the product in
see how it works see how these things
operate so that's what I did I started
to review things well these are you're
reviewing specifically illegal things
exactly right so that was my initial
right and you had an an presumably an
anonymous handle for that as well what
your what's that Gollum fun go Gollum oh
yeah Lord of the Rings yeah yeah yeah
like you said like you
said so what happens is amazing why' you
pick that name I'm a big Lord of the
Rings fan yeah but normally people don't
pick Gollum as their hero I'll tell you
why I picked it so uh on the on the
satellite side my initial name was
baggin all right and uh because there
were some other baggin users on the
internet at that point in time I added
dad to it so baggin's Dad yeah so once I
translated over to to a real criminal
platform I was like well you can't use
that because they're going to find that
name and out it's Brett Johnson so I was
like I still like Lord of the Rings
Gollum then add a t that's sign that
you've gone to the dark I know that's
that's a sign right there yeah so uh I
become the reviewer of counterfeit
library and it was a field of dreams for
criminals because it was the first of
its type now you had some place where
you had an actual reviewer that when you
and when you reviewed something if I
gave a positive review I stood by that
meaning if you get ripped off I will
reimburse you for being ripped off oh
you're kidding so you were an escrow
agent for for criminal transactions I'll
make sure so if I'm if I'm reviewing
somebody I'm going to make sure that you
get your product or service okay well
that's quite the creative Niche yeah
yeah really yeah yeah makes you wonder
what you could have done if you would
have been put in that power a whole lot
a whole lot I'm doing pretty well right
now good good good well but uh Mr X and
B elub Be abub doesn't do really well
with his driver's licenses he drops out
about 16 15 16 months later Mr X gets
arrested cashing things out in Las Vegas
so he both of those disappear I'm top of
the food chain because by this point in
time all these other criminals have come
to this platform and they rely on me to
tell them hey this is who you need to do
business with conect you're connecting
people like mad yeah so at one point
every single uh transaction went through
me on counterfeit Library nothing else
from there counterfeit Library
transitions over to Shadow crew and
Shadow crew and how what sort of
population size of people you suppose
were using that on a regular basis at
that point so Shadow crew ended with
4,000 people
what it end with so you know it
um 1% of the criminals commit 65% of the
crimes right so if there's 4,000 of them
and there are people who are dedicated
right you're you're dealing with a group
of people who are responsible for a
massive amount of criminal activity we
were we were prolific if you look at so
Shadow crew gets busted in 2004 you look
at the cyber crime arrests that have
happened up through today and a majority
of those people have connections to
Shadow cre right okay so Albert Gonzalez
Roman Vega all these other people they
Shadow crew operatives even the Canadian
guy that ran quadriga the cryptocurrency
exchange both of those guys were Shadow
cre people so it's it that connections
absolutely still exist today on that so
um give you an idea though so that 4,000
sounds like a lot until you trans you
you fast forward to 2017 alphab Bay
which was a dark Webb Marketplace in
Forum 240,000 people right right I grew
like everything else on the net then
2019 just a Marketplace gets shut down
1.15 million so these numbers continue
to explode cyber crime today if it were
a country would have the third largest
economy on the planet that's how things
have expanded to that point and now does
that include pornography distribution it
does not without pornography without
pornography we're talking Financial
cyber crime third largest economy on the
planet that's how big this is these days
now is that primarily operating in
Western worlds or how prolific is that
criminal activity in non-western Worlds
well North Korea finances onethird of
their nuclear program through cyber
crime finan oh that's a lovely little
connection that isn't it though so what
about Iran I don't know about Iran I
can't give that figure on that but North
Korea North Korea oneir one third wow
through stolen cryptocurrency credit
card schemes Pig butchering attacks you
name it what's that what's that one Pig
butchering is a think of a romance
scheme or a cryptocurrency scheme where
I'm going to not take one or two
payments from you but take every single
thing that you've got yeah that's they
call it Pig butchering because you're
but you're basically butchering the pig
and you pull people in one little step
at a time quzi scheme thing where they
get payouts to begin with and you build
up trust and eventually you just take
everything but understand in an online
environment trust is much easier to
establish because people almost
inherently trust that technology you
know we we don't understand the cell
phones we don't understand tech security
on websites but we trust this stuff we
trust those phone numbers that come
across the line we don't understand that
criminals use SPO phone calls that's not
the Social Security Administration or
the FBI call that's a scammer you just
don't see the right number that lays
trust and then remember I talked about
social engineering then you see how good
of a con man liar social engineer isn't
layering the trust and manipulating to
give up cash information access data
right right okay so this expands outward
and now you're involved in this from
2002 the shadow crew specifically 2002
to 2004 correct okay what happens in
2004 so 2004 I I'm the guy that in the
United States there's this thing called
tax return identity theft it's the
reason that every single person gets
their tax returns delayed every single
year I'm the guy that started that okay
and so how does that work so what it is
is I started it um I had access we we
had these identity database ACC accesses
these different databases started out
with the Indiana State sex registry and
we used that to open up bank accounts
back then you had on that registry you
had Social Security driver's license but
there's made dos of these people of the
sex offenders oh yeah and there there's
a there's a population you can take
advantage of with very little gu exactly
the fault right so my thought was who's
going to complain about
that so started doing that and did so
much fraud on that registry that Indiana
stripped the pii from the registry pii
is personal I
sociales of birth mother's they stri
that the next database we had access to
was the Texas DMV which we used to make
a lot of driver's licensees wow okay and
you got access to that got access how
did you get access to it they
had the passwords were very easy to
Brute Force ACC to I see so none of the
none of it complicated at all the the
final database that I had access to was
the California state death index oh yeah
all right so I started to look at that
and I was like I wonder because I was
looking for money to come in I was like
I wonder if you can file Social Security
benefits for the people who are deceased
and how does the federal government know
if you're dead right because in the
United States a state database does not
share information with a federal
database so the state can know you're
dead but the feds may not as a matter of
fact prior to
1998 if you died the only way the
federal government knew you were dead is
if the family filed a social security
death benefit only paid like $200 so
most family members did not because
they're in grief at that point in time
they know about right after 98 that Law
changes now the hospital or the funeral
home can do that for you okay and they
do so back then I was like I wonder if
you can do social security death
benefits you know retirement benefits on
these people you can't because the
numbers have been dormant for so long
they want you to come in for a sit down
interview the next thought was I wonder
if you can file taxes for tax returns on
these people you
can all right so the way that system
works is you pay your
taxes the US government gives you a
refund on those taxes before they are
able to verify with the employer whether
that person was hired and worked and had
taxes withraw so you can file a false
return that's very realistic for someone
else and claim a return and they will
send you the money oh yeah okay so
that's started doing that I would file
um around 180 tax returns a week got to
where I was manually able to do one
every 6 minutes um Sunday through
Wednesday file returns and to what for
what amounts approximately 3,000 and
under and why did you pick that amount
so I was one of the things that you find
out with with cyber crime and I was
always good on Research so tax return
tax Identity or tax return theft had
been popular and what you saw on on the
indictments was people would have those
returns deposited to their own bank
accounts okay I didn't want to do that
no you learned that already I learned
that one already so what I wanted to do
is I wanted to find some sort of payment
instrument that would accept a direct
deposit from the government at about the
same time is when these things called
prepaid debit cards start to hit the
market and back then they used to
advertise them as payroll cards so you
basically give them to Illegal Hispanic
workers and they could have their
paycheck deposited on them well they
would accept any AC deposit meaning a
federal government deposit would be just
fine on that but the deposit amount had
to be under $3,000 I see I see so
started doing that would uh spend time
180 a week 180 returns a week right so
you're starting to make a lot of money
at this point making a lot of money at
the same time Shadow crew starts to make
a get a lot of law enforcement
attention uhhuh were those things linked
or were were they they were not no one
knew I was doing tax return theft at
that point in right but what happens is
so how are you making money on Shadow
crew then I wasn't I I never made iow I
see you were just making your
connections and learning I ran the
entire thing never made any
money okay so why did you do it the ego
okay fair enough I was that guy yeah
yeah well like you said their status is
a major motivator and I got a lot of so
so if anyone like I partnered with the
ukrainians I was the guy who brought
them over um they would give me shoot me
free products and services all the time
so as long as I was giving them good
reviews and as long as their product
worked I was more than happy to do that
right so they made a lot of money too so
it was just you know never made cash but
I madeit Serv um Shadow crew we had this
thing called the cbb1 hack which allowed
you to take fished information like we
were getting the card number and the pin
we found out through testing that the
banks had not implemented what was
called the hash so in order to encode it
onto a physical card you've got three
data tracks on the on the card the
second data track is what's what's
important at an ATM that's the card
number forward slash and then there's a
16-digit algorithm outside of that none
of the banks had implemented the hash
for that meaning you've got the card
number you got the pen you put any 16
digits out it would encode you take it
to an ATM start pulling money out we
started doing that and typically a
cashier would make $40,000 a day at that
point all right yeah and 60% of that
went over to the ukrainians that was
supplying the information so they were
making a lot of money all of a sudden
that got a lot of law enforcement
attention so we started to see IPS
coming in from DOD Pentagon doj all
these other things at the same right now
you're funding a criminal Network in the
Ukraine and I'm that's not turning out
so well and I'm starting to wonder about
Rico all of a sudden yeah right right
yeah yeah so at the same time we had a
gentleman who who went by the screen
name of enhance he was the guy that
posted Paris Hilton's phone list back in
the early 2000s all right he's also the
guy that intercepted text messages of
the United States Secret Service
investigating Shadow crew so we have
that I'm I'm at the top of the food
chain I'm getting worried about what's
what's going to happen I'm like what are
you doing with all your money at this
point I don't know how to launder money
yet so I'll go on a road trip put
$150,000 in a backpack that's what will
fit in 20s in a backpack put 150k in a
backpack I've got a spare bedroom in
Charleston South Carolina come home take
the backpack Chuck it in the bedroom
150k a week on that all right 10 months
out of the year so a lot of money coming
in and it's is that where it's sitting
it's sitting until literally I walk I
one day I open up the bedroom door and
I'm like I've got to do something
with those
backpacks so yeah so that point is when
when I start learning how to launder
money I had bank accounts of the United
States Canada Mexico Cayman throughout
Europe and it finally ended up into uh
Estonia a bank called bank latico it's
where most of the money ended up all
right and how much money are we talking
about at this point how much do you
manage to make about 7 million
is what what that was all right um
Shadow crew right but I but see when I
asked you what you were doing with the
money I didn't exactly mean you're
putting it in backpacks and throwing in
a room I mean you're making all this
money like what good is it doing to you
none none none none I I'm one of those
what you find out with most cyber
criminals is that most of them will
commit a crime get the proceeds of the
crime live off that it starts to dwindle
down then bank roll the next crime I'm
one of those guys that I didn't work
that way I kept doing it and and saving
the money as a big p I like looking at a
big pile of money so uh uh and did you
ever did you ever have any idea what you
might do with that pile of money yeah I
was going to open up a
nightclub okay okay okay yeah that was
you could open up a pretty good
nightclub for million pretty good one
and uh uh so why didn't you just do that
instead because you could have had
nightclub then looking back it's the ego
of thing yeah okay you're in it already
yeah yeah yeah yeah you're not going to
give that up no no I mean it's hard to
express how big of a draw that is yeah
when when you've got everyone that's
relying on
you so my days I would spend 14 16 hours
a day at a computer I only took time off
from the computer to go get money out of
ATMs right so you're working your tail
off yeah yeah so that that's what
happened at that point and it's you're
not even use are you drinking at this
point no drink what about women no I see
so you're just ping up backpacks of
money I have to tell you once Susan
leaves I make up for the alcohol and the
women at that point uhuh all right right
and you've got the cash to bank roll got
the cash to bank roll it so I I would uh
when I was working for Secret Service I
would typically spend $4 $6,000 a night
at a strip club just go in and I'd give
the bartender a water 20 and say however
many kamic cazis that will buy and they
would put this table together and they'd
put all these comicazi on that and I
called that my stripper magnet and
what's a kamakazi it's vodka and I
forgot what all it's got in there but
the girls liked it and and I would drink
these white Russians is what I would
drink all the time right and so once
Susan left that's where you were going
at night the strip club once Susan
leaves I
[Music]
um I get
depressed um find out she's cheating on
me
and
uh I put a key logger on her computer to
find it out so uh found out she was
cheating on me found some pictures and
everything else and uh she was asleep in
the bedroom in Charleston I walk in
there and um it like 10:00 in the
morning I walked in there I opened up
the closet got a suitcase out started
putting her clothes in it and she wakes
up she's like what are you doing I was
like where she's like where you going
I'm like I'm not going anywhere you are
and uh and so you've been married how
long at this nine years and that's your
first wife yeah right okay okay okay and
this affair she's having she's found
someone else that she wants to be with
this guy what what what's the scoop with
that know yeah looking back what I what
I think actually happened was um I think
that's the only way she figured she
could break off the relationship right
cuz that was that was that's always My
Line in the Sand right there right right
well and you said you'd already rendered
her or she'd already been rendered
dependent as well so she needed an out
yeah right and did she know how
extensive your online criminal activity
she was well aware of it okay so she's
yeah okay okay did she have any family
or anyone connections at that point
still she did and and what happens is is
I was a pure
um it I was planning on taking her back
to Kentucky that day but it it it it was
a week of me and her crying at the house
and uh you know ending the relationship
this is after you packed after a week
doing that and um I mean it's obvious
that the relationship's over and um so I
take her back to her mom's in in Eastern
Kentucky and that's the last time I see
her right there um from there I go back
to Charleston I'm uh walking around the
house crying all the time realized I was
getting suicidal figured I better do
something about that picked up the phone
book went to psychology went to criminal
psych if found one have said criminal
psychology on there called the
psychologist
crying she tells me to come in
and I see her for about 4 months and uh
she was trying I tell it in speeches but
she was trying to get me to stop
breaking the law and go into real estate
and I kept telling her is there a
difference between the two and um what
happens is is one night I get lonely and
horny had never been to a strip club
before I was like tonight's the night I
get laid because I've got all this money
to walk in and uh I'm the guy that falls
in love with the first one that he
sees yeah oh yeah yeah she walks by I'm
like that's the one for me move her in
with me how long I moved her in with me
within um 8 weeks yeah yeah that that's
not why it's you no it was not and were
you did you is that when you started
drinking I I started drinking shortly
before that uhuh and were you
intoxicated when you made the decision
to go to the strip club I was not
completely sober completely sober okay
so uh were you drinking at the strip
strip clubs by that point no I was only
I only drank at the point in time I only
drank White Russians and it was just a
beer bar was all and I couldn't stand
beer at that point so uh what happens is
is she walks up to the bar and she's
like you want to buy me a drink well the
drinks for $25 a pop I'm like yeah what
are you drinking for
$25 and finally she's like well we can
go in the back if you buy a bottle of
champagne I was like well how much is
champagne she's like bottle of Corbell
is $400 I'm like okay so we go back
there and there's no D that I find this
out later a lot of men that go to strip
clubs especially you know 30s plus they
don't do dances they just want a
bartender they want somebody to talk to
and that's L what I did with this I
talked to her about three hours that
night that's yeah yeah yeah yeah come
back a week later and ask her out and
she says yeah move around with me
probably eight weeks after that find out
she's addicted to Coke after that find
out not only addicted to Coke but
prostituting herself to support the
habit and um I go off the rails at that
point I get it a okay so why were you
shocked I don't think I was yeah okay I
I think that U I think that I wanted
something and I just was willfully naive
at that point yeah well you know yeah
fair enough fair enough well you there's
none so blind as those who will not see
they say yeah yeah well you said you
were Lonesome and it's easy to look the
other way in all sorts of ways so right
and it's not like your plate was clean
at the at that point she didn't know I
lied to her too you didn't know I broke
the law she had no idea about that I I
was telling everybody that I knew that I
was fraud consultant and that was a joke
for me I yeah I consult on fraud I just
don't tell you on which side of the
right right right right so um what
happens is is um I get it in my head
that I can fix her yeah and I don't I
don't understand yet now you can't fix
other people Brad you know hell you
can't fix yourself well yeah try
yourself first and see how far you get
with that so uh I I I actually adopt
this I I actually said it I was like
what I'll do
is I'll spend enough money on her that
it'll keep her mind off
drugs no matter what it takes because
I've got that kind of bankroll well I've
spent I've sent most of my money over to
Estonia so I've got a bankroll at the
house of maybe 200k it's fine all right
she's got very expensive tastes uh at
that point in time my my meals I'd eat
at the house I'd cook at the house I
didn't spend a lot of money on stuff um
it became every single night you know
$500,000 dinners became $2,500 purses
every weekend ,000 gepi zatti shoes
every every weekend quickly start
dwindling down on funds at the same time
that shadow crew gets busted so Shadow
crew makes that front cover of Forbes
and gets busted three four months later
when that happens by the time that
happens I'm out of money uh Elizabeth
stopped using cocaine absolutely she she
started to she substituted with alcohol
point but she stops using Coke and she
gets this thing where she doesn't want
me to be away from her well when you're
doing this type of cyber crime you have
to take road trips you don't want to
where you eat so you want to travel
because if you if they find out a
central location for you they're going
to get you so because Elizabeth didn't
want me to leave any place I can't take
a road trip Shadow crew gets busted
right as tax season is over I can't do
tax return fraud in October so I have to
wait until late January February to
start back tax fraud Shadow krus busted
I can't go into credit theft or anything
else all of a sudden so the only thing
that I'm left with is checks running
paper I used to teach people never run
paper you're going to go to prison for
that it's easy enough to catch that
stuff I start doing that get caught and
um I got what happened was Elizabeth
wanted uh Tiffany rings so Tiffany
engagement ring that was a counterfeit
cashier's check and then she wanted the
wedding bands and that's where I got
caught I had them ordered through eBay
and uh you know this is the plot of a
very bad novel very bad one that we're
trying to work on yeah yeah yeah okay so
you get nailed you get nailed at that
point you've broken your own rules there
too I have why just why what why did you
think you could get away with it like
you knew you no I Knew by that point I
knew I guess just tired worn out didn't
give damn anymore everything else uh
when Susan left I actually tried to
tried to get a real job that didn't last
oh yeah so do you suppose there was a
party that was hoping you were going to
get
caught I I hesitate to say that yeah
yeah but it's strange that you would
pick something that you knew you knew
but I do the same thing with the Secret
Service so maybe yeah maybe yeah yeah
yeah well you know you said you were
pretty sick of yourself after your wife
left yeah yeah and then the whole thing
with the stripper couldn't help that
much right
yeah did you love
her it's that addiction thing right I uh
yeah I loved her yeah I loved the
out of her yeah and I uh I you know I
did this other show and uh up until that
I had always joked about it yeah you
know that first stripper that I see and
U I was talking to this guy and he asked
me and I was like I looked at him I was
like well screw it man why not and I
told him I was like yeah I absolutely
loved her and uh she contact me after
that oh yeah first time I've got to talk
T her since U 2006 yeah and just sent me
a message and I told her I was like I'd
like the opportunity to apologize to you
that's it I'm sorry I did everything to
you uhhuh so uh but she's doing good in
everything from what I can tell um I I
manipulated her too so I Got U Secret
Service they they arrest me spend three
three months in a County
Jail they get me out and the night they
get me out I go back into committing
crime again why did they get you out to
work with them I see I see so you were
making an arrangement at I I was with
what way so they get me U I'm arrested
February 8th of 2005 3 weeks before I'm
supposed to marry this this Elizabeth
and um I mean I was head over Hills with
her I get arrested she doesn't know I'm
breaking the law she finds out pretty
quickly once they search the house and U
throw me into County Jail they let me
sit there a week two a flying from New
Jersey pull me out we got your laptop
I'm like yeah got anything on it yeah
you're going to be charged for it I
figured that then they asked me is there
anything you can do for us in my exact
words you let me get back with Elizabeth
I'll do whatever you want me to do and
they said we're going to get you out so
they let me sit there for three months
to get a taste of it uhhuh get out after
three months first phone call I make is
Elizabeth I'm out she's like I'll be
there so it's midnight standing outside
in the parking lot agent beside of me
she had a friend that own a limo company
pulls up in a damn limo pops the trunk
gets out walks around to the back gets
these two storage containers out with my
clothes drops them comes over hugs me
call me later leaves I'm sitting there
balling by this point in time agent
looks at me he's like is that your
fiance I'm like yeah he's like I am so
sorry I'm like yeah so I didn't have any
I had $30 for my name at that point he
uh he paid out of his pocket to put me
in a hotel soon as he leaves I take that
$30 walk to Walmart by a prepaid debit
card so I can start back in tax fraud
then I call Elizabeth Begg her to get
back and I I lay these lies on her I'm
like hey it's going to be fine I'm not
going to do any prison time you've seen
that Frank abigil movie haven't you
catch me if you can I'm that guy and she
believes that don't tell her I'm back
committing crime I'm like hey it'll be
just fine so move her from uh Charleston
to Columbia South Carolina where the
field office is and my job was to work
for to 6 hours a night uh consult with
the Secret Service whoever they bring in
to teach them about cyber crime also
Target individuals for potential arrest
now were they paying you for this they
were uh they were paying 350 a week plus
they were paying rent all the utilities
right so nothing compared to what you
had been making and but you have do you
still have money in Estonia at this
point I do but I can't get it okay well
that's the problem with having money in
B all the way over there can't get it so
um start uh it what happens is
is four to six hours a night when I'm
online I'm I'm really fast for things
I'll have 20 30 windows open I'm
bouncing between them all the time now
they've got Camtasia Spectre Pro on my
machine so they've got me on a laptop
hooked up hooked up to a 50-in plasma
monitor on the wall outside internet
line they are two agents in the room all
at all times with a South Carolina law
enforcement official they've got their
desktop computer literally next to mine
outside line as well for the first two
to three weeks they're diligent they're
paying attention to everything asking
questions everything else after that
they get bored because how could you not
be you don't even understand what's
going on with right right right so they
start there was a site there used to be
this site called flash
your.com they start looking at women who
are exposing their breasts and rank them
on a scale of 1 to 10 and they spend
most of their nights doing that so I'm
sitting there going nobody's paying
attention to me all the data every
night's going on a DVD why not so I
start breaking the
law